Since early 2020,\comment[id=J]{Put stronger focus on time dependent rapid test
sensitivity (30\% before day of onset of infectiousness)} the CoViD-19 pandemic has
presented an enormous challenge to humanity on many dimensions. The development of highly
effective vaccines holds the promise of containment in the medium term. However, most
countries find themselves many months---and often years---away from reaching
vaccination-induced herd immunity \citep{Swaminathan2021}.\comment[id=HM]{Need to find
some more scientific citation before submission} In the meantime, it is of utmost
importance to employ an effective mix of strategies for containing the virus. The most
frequent initial response was a set of non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) to reduce
contacts between individuals. While this has allowed some countries to sustain equilibria
with very low infection numbers,\footnote{See \citet{Contreras2021} for a theoretical
equilibrium at low case numbers which is sustained with test-trace-and-isolate policies.}
most have seen large fluctuations of infection rates over time. Containment measures have
become increasingly diverse and now include rapid testing, more nuanced NPIs, and contact
tracing. Neither these policies' effect nor the influence of seasonal patterns or of more
infectious virus strains are well understood in quantitative terms.

This paper develops a quantitative model incorporating these factors simultaneously. The
framework allows to combine a wide variety of data and mechanisms in a timely fashion,
making it useful to predict the effects of various interventions. We apply the model to
Germany, where new infections fell by almost 80\% during the month of May 2021. Our
analysis shows that frequent and large-scale rapid testing caused the bulk of this
decrease, which is in line with prior predictions \citep{Mina2021}. We conclude that it
should have a large role for at least as long as vaccinations have not been offered to
an entire population.

At the core of our agent-based model are physical contacts between heterogeneous agents
(Figure~\ref{fig:model_contacts_infections}).\footnote{A detailed comparison with other
approaches  is relegated to Supplementary Material~\ref{sec:literature_review}. The
model most closely related to ours is described in \citet{Hinch2020}.} Each contact
between an infectious individual and somebody susceptible to the disease bears the risk
of transmitting the virus. Contacts occur in up to four networks: Within the household,
at work, at school, or in other settings (leisure activities, grocery shopping, medical
appointments, etc.). Some contacts recur regularly, others occur at random. Empirical
applications can take the population and household structure from census data and the
network-specific frequencies of contacts from diary data measuring contacts before the
pandemic \citep[e.g.][]{Mossong2008,Hoang2019}. Within each network, contacts are
differentiated by age and geographical location (see
Section~\ref{sub:number_of_contacts} of the Supplementary Material).

The four contact networks are chosen so that the most common NPIs can be modeled in
great detail. NPIs affect the number of contacts or the risk of transmitting the disease
upon having physical contact. The effect of different NPIs will generally vary across
contact types. For example, a mandate to work from home will reduce the number of work
contacts to zero for a fraction of the working population. Schools and daycare can be
closed entirely, operate at reduced capacity---including an alternating schedule---, or
implement mitigation measures like masking requirements or air filters
\citep{Lessler2021}. Curfews may reduce the number of contacts in non-work/non-school
settings. In any setting, measures like masking requirements would reduce the
probability of infection associated with a contact \citep{Cheng2021}.

\begin{figure}   % Figure 1
    \centering

    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.425\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/model-graph-top-left}
        \caption{{Model for contacts and infections}}
        \label{fig:model_contacts_infections}
    \end{subfigure}
    \hfill
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.425\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/model-graph-top-right}
        \vskip5ex

        \caption{Disease progression}
        \label{fig:model_disease_progression}
    \end{subfigure}
    \vskip3ex
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.425\textwidth}
        \centering

        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/model-graph-bottom-left}
        \caption{{Model for rapid tests}}
        \label{fig:model_rapid_tests}
    \end{subfigure}
    \hfill
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.425\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/model-graph-bottom-right}
        \vskip5ex

        \caption{{Translating all infections to recorded ones}}
        \label{fig:model_official_cases}
    \end{subfigure}

    \caption{Model description}
    \label{fig:model_description}

    \floatfoot{\noindent \textit{Note:}
        A
        % formal
        description of the model can be found in Supplementary Material~\ref{sec:model}.
        Figure~\ref{fig:model_contacts_infections} shows the influence on an agent's
        contacts to other agents. Demographic characteristics set the baseline number of
        contacts in different networks. She may reduce the number of contacts due to
        NPIs, showing symptoms, or testing positively for SARS-CoV-2. Infections may
        occur when a susceptible agent meets an infectious agent; the probability
        depends on the type of contact, on seasonality, and on NPIs. If infected, the
        infection progresses as depicted in Figure~\ref{fig:model_disease_progression}.
        If rapid tests are avaible, agents' demand is modeled as in
        Figure~\ref{fig:model_rapid_tests}. All pupils are attending school are tested,
        other reasons trigger a test only for a fraction of individuals.
        Figure~\ref{fig:model_official_cases} shows the model of translating all
        infections in the simulated data to age-specific recorded infections. The model
        uses data on the aggregate share of recorded cases, on the share of positive PCR
        tests triggered by symptoms, and on the false positive rate of rapid tests. The
        lower part of the graph is relevant only for periods where rapid tests are
        available.}
\end{figure}

In the model, susceptibility to contracting the SARS-CoV-2 virus is dependent on age. A
possible infection progresses as shown in Figure~\ref{fig:model_disease_progression}. We
differentiate between an initial period of infection without being infectious or showing
symptoms, being infectious (presymptomatic or asymptomatic), showing symptoms, requiring
intensive care, and recovery or death \citep[similar
to][]{Grimm2021}.\comment[id=HM]{Need to look for non-economists}
The probabilities of transitioning between these states depend on age; their duration is
random within intervals calibrated to medical literature (for a detailed description see
Section~\ref{sec:medical_params}). Conditional on the type of contact, infectiousness is
independent of age \citep{Jones2021}.

The model includes several other features, which are crucial to describe the evolution
of the pandemic in 2020-2021. New virus strains with different profiles regarding
infectiousness can be introduced. Agents may receive a vaccination. With a probability
of 75\% \citep{Hunter2021}, vaccinated agents become immune and they do not transmit the
virus \citep{Petter2021, LevineTiefenbrun2021, Pritchard2021}.\footnote{75\% is lower
than what is usually reported for after the second dose of the Biontech/Pfizer vaccine,
which is most commonly used in Germany. We choose it because our model neither includes
booster shots, nor does it allow vaccinated individuals who became immune to transmit
the disease\citep{Petter2021, LevineTiefenbrun2021, Pritchard2021}. If anything, these
assumptions would overstate the effect of vaccines for our study period. This would be
different if a large fraction of vaccinated individuals had received a second dose
already.} During the vaccine roll-out, priority may depend on age and occupation.

We include two types of tests. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests reveal whether an
individual is infected or not; there is no uncertainty to the result. PCR tests require
some days to be processed and there are aggregate capacity constraints throughout. In
contrast, rapid antigen tests yield immediate results; after a phase-in period, all tests
that are demanded will be performed. Specificity and sensitivity of these tests is set
according to data analyzed in \cite{Bruemmer2021, Smith2021}; sensitivity depends on the
timing of the test relative to the onset of infectiousness.
Figure~\ref{fig:model_rapid_tests} shows our model for rapid test demand. Schools may
require students to be tested regularly. Rapid tests may be offered by employers for
on-site workers. Individuals may demand tests for private reasons, which include having
plans to meet other people,\footnote{A positive test will make them reduce their
contacts; this is why tests impact the actual contacts in
Figure~\ref{fig:model_description}.} showing symptoms of CoViD-19, and because a
household member tested positively for the virus. We endow each agent with an individual
compliance parameter. This parameter determines whether she takes up rapid tests offered
by employers or follows up on private reasons.\comment[id=HM]{Removed ``and whether she
reduces her contacts if she tests positive or develops symptoms'' -- does not fit here.
If anything, add footnote, but it seems like this is a detail that is just distracting
right here. Make sure to describe clearly and at length in Appendix.}

Modelling a population of agents according to actual demographic characteristics means
that we can use a wide array of data to identify and estimate the model's many
parameters.\footnote{See section~\ref{sec:data_and_parameters} of the supplementary
materials for an overview.} Contact diaries yield pre-pandemic distributions of contacts
for different contact types and their assortativity by age group. Mobility data is used
to model the evolution of work contacts. School and daycare policies can be incorporated
directly from official directives. Administrative records on the number of tests,
vaccinations by age and region, and the prevalence of virus strains are generally
available. Surveys may ask about test offers, propensities to take them up, and past
tests. Other studies' estimates of the seasonality of infections can be incorporated
directly. The remaining parameters---most notably, these include infection probabilities
by contact network and the effects of NPIs, see Supplementary
Material~\ref{subsec:estimated_params}---will be chosen numerically so that the model
matches features of the data \citep[see][for the general method, also described in
Supplementary Material \ref{sec:model}]{McFadden1989}.\comment[id=HM]{Make referencemore
specific once Appendix has new structure} In our application, we keep the number of free
parameters low in order to avoid overfitting. The data features to be matched include
official case numbers for each age group and region, deaths, and the share of the B.1.1.7
strain.

The main issue with official case numbers is that they will contain only a fraction of
all infections. We thus model official cases as depicted in
Figure~\ref{fig:model_official_cases}. We take aggregate estimates of the share of
detected cases and use data on whether CoViD-19 symptoms led to a PCR test. As the share
of asymptomatic individuals varies by age group, this gives us age-specific shares (see
Figure~\ref{fig:share_known_cases_by_age_group} for the share of known cases by age
group over time in our model). Our estimates suggest that---in the absence of rapid
testing---the detection rate is two to three times higher for individuals above age 80
compared to school age children.\comment[id=K]{Must be verified once results are final.}
Once rapid test become available, confirmation of a positive result is another reason
leading to positive PCR tests.

The model is applied to the second and third wave of the CoViD-19 pandemic in Germany,
covering the period mid-September 2020 to the end of May 2021.
Figure~\ref{fig:pandemic_drivers_model_fit} describes the evolution of the pandemic and
of its drivers. The black line in Figure~\ref{fig:aggregated_fit} shows officially
recorded cases; the black line in Figure~\ref{fig:stringency_infectious_contacts} the
Oxford Response Stringency Index \citep{Hale2020}, which tracks the tightness of
non-pharmaceutical interventions. The index is shown for illustration of the NPIs, we
never use it directly. For legibility reasons, we transform the index so that lower
values represent higher levels of restrictions. A value of zero means all measures
incorporated in the index are turned on. The value 1 represents the situation in
mid-September, with restrictions on gatherings and public events, masking requirements,
but open schools and workplaces. In the seven weeks between mid September and early
November, cases increased by a factor of 10. Restrictions were somewhat tightened in
mid-October and again in early November. New infections remained constant throughout
November before rising again in December, prompting the most stringent lockdown to this
date. Schools and daycare centers were closed again, so were customer-facing businesses
except for grocery and drug stores. From the peak of the second wave just before
Christmas until the trough in mid-February, newly detected cases decreased by almost
three quarters. The third wave in the spring of 2021 is associated with the B.1.1.7
strain, which became dominant in March (Figure~\ref{fig:share_b117}). In early March,
some NPIs were being relaxed; e.g., hairdressers and home improvement stores were
allowed to open again to the public. There were many changes in details of regulations
afterwards, but they did not change the stringency index.

\begin{figure}[!tp]   % Figure 2
    \centering

    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.475\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/results/figures/scenario_comparisons/combined_fit/full_new_known_case}
        \caption{{Recorded cases: Empirical and simulated}}
        \label{fig:aggregated_fit}
    \end{subfigure}
    \hfill
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.475\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/results/figures/data/stringency2_with_seasonality}

        \caption{{Stringency of NPIs and infectious contacts}}
        \label{fig:stringency_infectious_contacts}
    \end{subfigure}

    \vskip3ex

    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.475\textwidth}
        \centering

        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/results/figures/scenario_comparisons/combined_fit/full_share_b117}

        \caption{Fraction of B.1.1.7 strain}
        \label{fig:share_b117}
    \end{subfigure}
    \hfill
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.475\textwidth}
        \centering

        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/results/figures/scenario_comparisons/combined_fit/full_share_rapid_test_in_last_week_and_vaccinated}

        \caption{{Tests and vaccinations}}
        \label{fig:antigen_tests_vaccinations}
    \end{subfigure}

    \caption{Evolution of the pandemic, its drivers, and model fit, September 2020 to May 2021}
    \label{fig:pandemic_drivers_model_fit}

    \floatfoot{\noindent \textit{Note:} Data sources are described in Supplementary
        Material~\ref{sec:data_and_parameters}. Age- and region-specific analogues to
        Figure~\ref{fig:aggregated_fit} can be found in Supplementary Material
        \ref{subsec:fit_results}. For legibility reasons, all lines in
        Figure~\ref{fig:stringency_infectious_contacts} are rolling 7-day averages. The
        Oxford Response Stringency Index is scaled as $2 \cdot (1 -  x / 100)$, so that
        a value of 1 is refers to the situation at the start of our sample period and 0
        means that all NPIs included in the index are turned on. The other lines in
        Figure~\ref{fig:stringency_infectious_contacts} show the product of the effect
        of contact reductions, increased hygiene regulations, and seasonality. See
        Appendix~\ref{subsec:policies_seasonality} for separate plots of the three
        factors by contact type.}
\end{figure}

By this time, the set of policy instruments had become much more diverse. Around the
turn of the year, the first people were vaccinated with a focus on older age groups and
medical personnel (Figure~\ref{fig:antigen_tests_vaccinations}). By the end of May, just
over 40\% had received at least one dose of a vaccine. Around the same time, rapid tests
started to replace regular PCR tests for staff in many medical and nursing facilities.
These had to be administered by medical doctors or in pharmacies. At-home tests approved
by authorities became available in mid-March, rapid test centers were opened, and one
test per person and week was made available free of charge. In several states, customers
were only allowed to enter certain stores with a recent negative rapid test result.
These developments are characteristic of many countries: The initial focus on NPIs to
slow the spread of the disease has been accompanied by vaccines and a growing acceptance
and use of rapid tests. At broadly similar points in time, novel strains of the virus
have started to pose additional challenges.

We draw simulated samples of agents from the population structure in September 2020 and
use the model to predict recorded infection rates until the end of May 2021. See
Supplementary Material~\ref{sub:initial_conditions} for a detailed description of this
procedure. The blue line in Figure~\ref{fig:aggregated_fit} shows that our model's
predictions are very close to officially recorded cases in the aggregate. This is also
true for infections by age and geographical region, which are shown in the supplementary
materials (Figures~\ref{fig:age_group_fit} and \ref{fig:state_fit}, respectively).

The effects of various mechanisms can be disentangled due to the distinct temporal
variation in the drivers of the pandemic. Next to the stringency index, the three lines
in Figure~\ref{fig:stringency_infectious_contacts} summarize how contact reductions,
increased hygiene regulations, and seasonality evolved since early September for each of
the three broad contact networks. For example, a value of 0.75 for the work multiplier
means that if the environment was the same as in September (levels of infection rates,
no rapid tests or vaccinations, only the wildtype virus present), infections at the
workplace would be reduced by 25\%. The lines show the product of the effect of contact
reductions, increased hygiene regulations, and seasonality. Two aspects are particularly
interesting. First, all lines broadly follow the stringency index and they would do so
even more if we left out seasonality and school vacations (roughly the last two weeks of
October, two weeks each around Christmas and Easter, and some days in late May). Second,
the most stringent regulations are associated with the period of strong decreases in new
infections between late December 2020 and mid-February 2021. The reversal of the trend
is associated with the spread of the B.1.1.7 variant. The steep drop in recorded cases
during May 2021 is associated with at least weekly rapid tests to 42\% of the
population, a vaccination rate that rose from 28\% to 43\%, and mostly seasonality
impacting a fall in the relative infectiousness of contacts outside of work and school.

In order to better understand the contributions  of rapid tests, vaccinations, and
seasonality on the evolution of infections in 2021,
Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_broad} considers various scenarios. NPIs are always the
same as in the baseline scenario. Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_recorded} shows the
model fit (the blue line, same as in Figure~\ref{fig:aggregated_fit}), a scenario
without any of the three factors (red line), and three scenarios turning these factors
off one by one. Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_newly_infected} does the same for total
infections in the model. Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_decomposition} employs Shapley
values \citep{Shapley2016} to decompose the difference in total infections between the
scenario without any of the three factors and our main specification.

\begin{figure}[!tp]
    \centering

    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.475\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/results/figures/scenario_comparisons/effect_of_channels_on_pessimistic_scenario/full_new_known_case}
        \caption{{Recorded cases: 2021 scenarios}}
        \label{fig:2021_scenarios_recorded}
    \end{subfigure}
    \hfill
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.475\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/results/figures/scenario_comparisons/effect_of_channels_on_pessimistic_scenario/full_newly_infected}
        \caption{{Total cases: 2021 scenarios}}
        \label{fig:2021_scenarios_newly_infected}
    \end{subfigure}

    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.475\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/results/figures/full_decomposition_channels_area}
        \caption{Decomposition of the difference between the scenario without any of the
            three factors and the main scenario in
            Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_newly_infected}.}
        \label{fig:2021_scenarios_decomposition}
    \end{subfigure}
    \hfill
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.475\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/results/figures/full_decomposition_rapid_tests_area}
        \caption{Decomposition of the difference between the scenario without rapid
            tests and the main scenario in
            Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_newly_infected}.}
        \label{fig:2021_scenarios_decomposition_tests}
    \end{subfigure}

    \caption{The effect of different interventions on recorded and actual infections}
    \label{fig:2021_scenarios_broad}

    \floatfoot{\noindent \textit{Note:} The blue line in
        Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_recorded} is the same as in
        Figure~\ref{fig:aggregated_fit} and refers to our baseline scenario, so does the
        blue line in Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_newly_infected}. The red lines refer
        to a situation where NPIs evolve as in the baseline scenario and the B.1.1.7
        variant is introduced in the same way; vaccinations, rapid tests, and
        seasonality remain at their January levels. The other scenarios turn these three
        factors on one-by-one. The decompositions in
        Figures~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_decomposition} and
        \ref{fig:2021_scenarios_decomposition_tests} are based on Shapley values, which
        are explained more thoroughly in Appendix~\ref{sub:shapley_value}}
\end{figure}

Until mid-March, there is no visible difference between the different scenarios.
Seasonality hardly changes, and only few vaccinations or rapid tests were administered.
Even thereafter, the effect of the vaccination campaign is surprisingly small at first
sight. Whether considering recorded or total infections with only one channel active,
the final level is always the highest in case of the vaccination campaign (orange
lines). The Shapley value decomposition shows that vaccinations contribute 17\% to the
cumulative difference between scenarios. Reasons for this are the slow start---it took
until March~24th until 10\% of the population had received their first vaccination, the
20\% mark was reached on April 19th---and the focus on older individuals. These groups
contribute less to the spread of the disease than others due to a lower number of
contacts, see Supplementary Material~\ref{subsec:contacts_by_age}. By the end of our
study period, when first-dose vaccination rates reached around 40\% of the population,
the numbers of new cases would have started to decline. It is important to note that the
initial focus of the campaign was to prevent deaths and severe disease. Indeed, the case
fatality was rate considerably lower during the third wave when compared to the second
(4.4\% between October and February and 1.4\% between March and the end of May).

Seasonality has a large effect in slowing the spread of SARS-CoV-2. By May 31, both
observed and recorded cases would be reduced by a factor of four if only seasonality
mattered. However, in this period, cases would have kept on rising throughout, just at a
much lower pace \citep[this is in line with results in][]{Gavenciak2021}. Nevertheless,
we estimate seasonality to be a quantitatively important factor determining the
evolution of the pandemic, explaining most of the early changes and 38\% of the
cumulative difference by the end of May.

The largest effect---45\% in the decompositions---comes from rapid testing. Here, it is
crucial to differentiate between recorded cases and actual cases. Additional testing
means that additional infections will be recorded which would otherwise remain
undetected. Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_recorded} shows that this effect is large.
Until late April, recorded cases are higher in the scenario with rapid testing alone
when compared to the setting where none of the three mechanisms are turned on. Compared
to the scenario with vaccinations only, this point is reached around mid-May and it
would be June for the comparison with the seasonality-only scenario. The effect on total
cases, however, is visible immediately in
Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_newly_infected}. Despite the fact that only 10\%  of the
population performed weekly rapid tests in March on average, new infections on April 1
would be reduced by 53\% relative to the scenario without vaccinations, rapid tests, or
seasonality.

So why is rapid testing so effective? In order to shed more light on this question,
Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_decomposition_tests} decomposes the difference in the
scenario without rapid tests only (purple line in
Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_newly_infected}) and the main specification into the
three channels for rapid tests. Tests at schools have the smallest effect, which is
largely explained by schools not operating at full capacity during our period of study
and the relatively small number of students.\footnote{18\% of our population are in the
education sector (pupils, teachers etc.); 46\% are workers outside the education sector}
Almost 40\% come from tests at the workplace. Despite the fact that rapid tests for
private reasons are phased in only late, they make up for more than half of the total
effect. The reason lies in the fact that a substantial share of these tests is driven by
an elevated probability to carry the virus, i.e., showing symptoms of CoViD-19 or
following up on a positive test of a household member. The latter is essentially a form
of contact tracing, which has been shown to be very effective \citep{Contreras2021,
Kretzschmar2020,FetzerGraeber2021}.

Two of the most contentious NPIs concern schools and mandates to work from home. In many
countries, schools switched to remote instruction during the first wave, so did Germany.
After the summer break, they were operating at full capacity with increased hygiene
measures, before being closed again from mid-December onwards. Some states started
opening them gradually in late February, but operation at normal capacity did not resume
until the beginning of June. Figure~\ref{fig:school_scenarios} shows the effects of
different policies regarding school starting at Easter, at which point rapid tests had
become widely available. We estimate the realized scenario to have essentially the same
effect as a situation with closed schools. Under fully opened schools with mandatory
tests, total infections would have been 7\% higher; this number rises to 20\% without
tests. These effect sizes are broadly in line with empirical studies, e.g.,
\citep{Vlachos2021}\comment[id=HM]{Need a back-of the envelope calculation}
To use another metric, the effective weekly reproduction number differs by $0.017$ and
$0.045$, respectively. In light of the large negative effects school closures have on
children and parents \citep{Luijten2021, Melegari2021}---and in particular on those with
low socio-economic status---these results in conjunction with hindsight bias suggest that
opening schools combined with a testing strategy would have been beneficial. In other
situations, and particular when rapid test are not available at scale, trade-offs may
well be different.

\begin{figure}[!tp]
    \centering

    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.475\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.9 \textwidth]{figures/results/figures/scenario_comparisons/school_scenarios/full_newly_infected}
        \caption{{Effects of different schooling scenarios}}
        \label{fig:school_scenarios}
    \end{subfigure}
    \hfill
    \begin{subfigure}[b]{0.475\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.9 \textwidth]{figures/results/figures/scenario_comparisons/new_work_scenarios/full_newly_infected}
        \caption{{Effects of different work scenarios}}
        \label{fig:workplace_scenarios}
    \end{subfigure}
    \vskip3ex

    \caption{Effects of different scenarios for policies regarding schools and workplaces.}
    \label{fig:school_workplace_scenarios}

    \floatfoot{\noindent \textit{Note:} Blue lines in both figures refer to our baseline
        scenario; they are the same as in
        Figure~\ref{fig:2021_scenarios_newly_infected}. Interventions start at Easter
        because there were no capacity constraints for rapid tests afterwards.}

\end{figure}

Figure~\ref{fig:workplace_scenarios} shows that with a large fraction of workers
receiving tests, testing at the workplace has larger effects than mandating employees to
work from home. Whether the share of workers working at the usual workplace is reduced
or increased by ten percent hardly has an effect on infection rates. Making testing
mandatory twice a week---assuming independent compliance by employers and workers or
95\% each---would have reduced infections by 13\%. Reducing rapid tests offers by
employers to the level of March would have increased infections by the same amount.

Our analysis has shown that during the transition to high levels of vaccination and
possibly thereafter, large-scale rapid testing can substitute for some NPIs. This comes
at a fraction of the cost. A week of the fairly strict lockdown in early 2021 is
estimated to have cost around 20~Euros per capita \citep{Wollmershauser2021}; retail
prices for rapid tests were below one Euro in early June 2021. Despite these large
effects, the results on testing likely understate the benefits. Disadvantaged groups are
less likely to be reached by testing campaigns relying on voluntary participation
\citep[e.g.][]{StillmanTonin2021}; at the same time, these groups have a higher risk to
contract CoViD-19 \citep{KochInstitut2021a}. Mandatory tests at school and at the
workplace will extend more into these groups. The same goes for individuals who exhibit
a low level of compliance with CoViD-19-related regulations. Compared to vaccinations,
rapid testing programmes allow a much quicker roll-out, making it arguably the most
effective tool to contain the pandemic in the short run.
